# BCMF - code

## Project files

- `BCMF_data.csv` is the dataset
- `BCMF.ipynb` is the notebook containing the code
- `cache/` is saved data that usually takes quite a long time to compute. All functions that access such data have arguments to manually regenerate such data. Specifically:
	- [pickle files](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html) storing the results of all grid searches, which are particularly slow to perform
	- pairplots

## Extra packages

Oversampling was done using the [`imbalanced-learn`](https://imbalanced-learn.org/stable/) Python package. This has to be manually installed (see below).

## Before running

The following instructions refer to or assume that you're operating in the `/project` directory containing this file.

### Google Colab

1. Upload the `cache` folder and `data.csv` to Google Drive
	- If `cache` is omitted, it will be regenerated automatically
2. Before running, complete the `cd` command in the first cell with the correct path from step 1

### On your PC

This project uses [pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to track its dependencies, listed in the included `Pipfile`, and at least Python 3.10 (though it hasn't been tested for lower versions - 3.10 is the one used by Colab but my laptop & desktop run 3.11).

1. Inside the project's root directory, run `pipenv install`
	- this will install the required packages and python version (if missing). Most importantly, it'll make sure to install scikit version *1.2.2* (to make sure the pickle files contain data generated by the same scikit installed on Colab)
	- this will output a name for the newly created environment (e.g., in my case "`BCMF-p3r9wMLm`")
2. Open the notebook with VSCode and click "Select kernel" > "Python environments", where you'll see (among others) the pipenv environment. Once selected, it'll be used automatically the next time you run the notebook.

